# chromium-adblock

Yet another set of sources and patches for integrating adblock functionality in Chromium.

## About

This is just a demonstration at this point, may contain bugs, vulnerabilities, etc.

Most of this is sourced from `brave-core`, though much of this has been heavily modified.
This means:
- No exemptions for first-party content
- No limitations on the naming of custom scriptlets
- Cname uncloaking is always enabled
- No builtin filters or scriptlets
- No additional connections are made by default
- Support for importing arbitrary resources

This currently targets version `150.0.7871.46` of Chromium.

## License

MPL-2.0

## Building

The included makefile will perform all the steps needed to integrate adblock
into your Chromium source tree. Set the `CHROMIUM_SRC` and `RUST_SYSROOT`
variables at the top to appropriate locations, and then run one or all of
the following:

1. Apply `core.patch` (target: `apply-core-patch`)

2. Copy new files under `src/` into the tree (target: `apply-src`)

3. Build the `gnrt` tool in the Chromium tree (target: `build-gnrt`)

4. Update Chromium's vendored Rust crates (target: `re-vendor`)

5. Generate `BUILD.gn` files for the vendored crates (target: `gen-build-gn`)

6. (Optional) Generate a tarball containing only the new/updated vendored Rust
   crates (target: `tarball`)

7. (Optional) Generate patch files to attain the same results as steps 2 and 5
   above (target: `patches`)

Running `make` without a target will run all the above steps.

### Dev notes

If you see an error at `gn gen` time like
```
ERROR at //build/config/BUILDCONFIG.gn:570:5: Test-only dependency not allowed.
    target(_target_type, target_name) {
    ^----------------------------------
//components/brave_shields/core/common/adblock/rs:rust_lib_cxx_generated
which is NOT marked testonly can't depend on
//third_party/rust/adblock/v0_12:lib
which is marked testonly. Only targets with "testonly = true"
can depend on other test-only targets.

Either mark it test-only or don't do this dependency.
```
then it is because some Rust crate dependency of adblock-rust has
`testonly = true` set in its `BUILD.gn` file under `third_party/rust/`.
(When a dependency is so marked as test-only, anything that consumes it also
becomes test-only.) The `BUILD.gn` files are generated by `gnrt`, so to get
rid of the directive permanently, you'll need to make an edit to
`third_party/rust/chromium_crates_io/gnrt_config.toml` like the following:
```diff
 [crate.ahash]
-group = 'test'
 allow_first_party_usage = false
 extra_kv = { allow_unsafe = true }
```
There does not appear to be a straightforward way of determining which
specific dependency (or dependencies) need to be modified in this way,
unfortunately. They tend not to be direct dependencies of adblock.

Currently, some edits like the above are included in `core.patch`.

For other problems, `docs/rust/build_errors_guide.md` in the Chromium source tree is quite useful.

Also, fixes might have already been made in `brave-core`, so check against that
repository's versions of `gnrt_config.toml` and `Cargo.toml`.

## Configuring the adblocker

Custom filters, subscriptions and scriptlets can be configured at `chrome://adblock`.
I'd recommend adding at least the following subscriptions (one-by-one, also note that the last two rely on scriptlets):
```
https://easylist.to/easylist/easylist.txt
https://easylist.to/easylist/easyprivacy.txt
https://github.com/uBlockOrigin/uAssets/raw/refs/heads/master/filters/filters.txt
https://github.com/uBlockOrigin/uAssets/raw/refs/heads/master/filters/quick-fixes.txt
```

## Sourcing resources

To bundle resources from uBlock Origin in a suitable form, you can use the `gen-ublock-resources.js` script like so:
```sh
node gen-ublock-resources.js /path/to/uBO/repository uBlockResources.json
```

Then you can import that JSON file as a resource bundle via the first file selector in `chrome://adblock`.

## Exporting sources back to this repository

First, makes sure that you've committed everything both here and in your Chromium tree.
Then do this:

```sh
## (here) represents this repository, (chromium) is the Chromium tree
$ (chromium) git diff --diff-filter=A (root commit) HEAD > (here)/new.patch
$ (chromium) git diff --diff-filter=M (root commit) HEAD | sed '/^diff --git/d' | sed '/^index /d' > (here)/core.patch
# remove everything under src so that the patch'll apply
$ rm -rf (here)/src/*
$ patch -p1 -d (here)/src < (here)/new.patch
$ rm (here)/new.patch
```
